We are listener supported One Radio Network.
- Turn my microphone on, that would help.
A very pleasant good morning to you.
It is November 16, 2020.
As we are live here on oneradionetwork.com,
you're watching on YouTube,
you can put up your questions there.
Sharon monitors that for us.
Or simply email patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
Sorry, the 800 thing is not working this morning.
Tried to, I don't know, it's just not.
So just the email is where we're gonna go.
Patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
We're gonna talk about the Constitution
and what could be going on constitutionally
with an expert on the Constitution, Richard Proctor,
a former member, or still is, the Constitutional Party.
He knows his stuff.
And we'll be speaking to him on a couple ideas
of the election and all that,
but also the constitutionality of different governors
and mayors telling you to do this or that,
and also the constitutionality about potential vaccines
and forcing people to take stuff
or forcing you to take a test, you know, stuff like that.
So I think you'll find the show interesting.
Have a couple of the people
that are gonna be on this week too,
that have yet to totally confirm,
but kind of a poetry in motion for this week.
So stay tuned.
Let us know how we can help.
My email is always here, patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
The email reaches me, and then we'll talk with you
and take care of you the best we can do.
On the third Monday of the month, which is today,
Dr. Ray Peat joins us around this time.
We're a little bit late, as we said.
Generally, we try to start about 10,
well, you know, it doesn't matter.
We're here now.
Dr. Ray Peat, interesting fellow,
very well-respected PhD researcher
in the field of health and nutrition.
I got his PhD up in the University of Oregon
where he still lives today, specializing in physiology.
He started his work with hormones in 1968.
His website is rayPeat.com,
and you can sign up for a newsletter
by Ray Peat's Newsletters,
Ray Peat's Newsletter at gmail.com.
Dr. Peat, did I have that right?
Is it Ray Peat's Newsletter, is that it?
- With an S, Ray Peat's, but no apostrophe.
- Yeah, just rayPeatsnewsletter, right, at gmail.com.
How are you doing, sir, up there in Oregon?
How are things?
- Oh, it's very dim and rainy and cloudy
and alternating cold,
but that's a normal winter in Oregon.
- You do well with the, you've lived up there a long time.
Obviously, your body must do well with the weather there.
- Yeah, the humidity is generally moderate.
I lived for a while in the mountains of Montana,
and indoors, the humidity goes to just about absolute zero.
From here down to central Mexico,
there's a comfortable amount of humidity,
which I like, but I would like more sun and warmth.
- Yeah, we've often heard over the years
that it's good to have some humidity.
It helps to, elimination in the colon and all of that.
Do people that live in the desert
have issues with that and get too dry?
- Yeah, in the high desert,
I lived in New Mexico for a while,
and the people there at about 6,000 feet altitude
and lots of sun, almost no rain or snow there,
but the constant high altitude sun
and fair amount of dryness,
their skin tends to get prematurely aged.
- Do people with more sun near the equator,
do they generally have better health markers
and longevity, do we know?
Any research on that?
- Oh yeah, and altitude is even more important
than the steady sunlight, but degenerative diseases,
multiple sclerosis was one of the first things
they noticed, very little of it towards the equator,
and farther north, you get the deficiency
of ultraviolet and vitamin D,
ends up with all of the inflammatory degenerative diseases,
rheumatoid arthritis and nerve disease.
- What do you suppose the altitude, Dr. Peat,
what does that do, what's going on?
- That really is one of the most neglected areas
of health research, but the insurance companies
were wise to it 120 years ago or more,
that the degenerative diseases, cancer and heart disease,
are about 10% lower chronically
in all of the high cities of the world.
In 1959, in his book, Linus Pauling saw those figures
and he was concentrating on radiation mutations
causing cancer, and he saw those old figures
showing that cancer mortality decreases steadily
as you go up in altitude, he couldn't believe it,
he said, "Something must be wrong with those figures."
But it turns out someone reading his book in Texas
compared the amount, they figured that melanoma
would be the most responsive to the high infrared,
high ultraviolet light at high altitude.
So this person made a map of the state
and comparing the altitude and the mortality from melanoma
and found that even within the moderate altitude range
of Texas, there is much less melanoma at higher altitudes,
much more at lower altitudes.
So it definitely isn't just ultraviolet radiation
causing mutations, the increased vitamin D at altitude
is one of the anti-cancer, anti-aging factors.
But apart from the vitamin D at altitude,
many other things change.
Within, I think it was Bolivia, two cities were compared,
one at around 13,500 feet altitude,
one around 4,000 feet, not low altitude,
but even within that 9,000 foot difference,
there were eight times as many 100-year-old people
in a city of the same population at high altitude,
just a vast difference in extreme longevity
for the high altitude.
And within New Mexico, every 1,000 feet higher you go,
you see lower death rate from heart disease.
And the best understood factor that changes with altitude
when you're adapted is that your carbon dioxide rises
with altitude and the higher the carbon dioxide is,
the less lactic acid your cells produce.
And lactic acid metabolism is characteristic of stress,
typical of cancer metabolism, but also heart disease
and other inflammatory conditions.
- Interesting, so it's that idea with breathing properly,
like not over-breathing, which you've heard
of the Buteyko method kind of talks about,
that we retain more carbon dioxide
and we can hold our breath essentially longer.
That's reducing lactic acid, right?
- Right, breathing in a paper bag,
I've seen people lower their blood pressure in a day
just by every half hour or so,
breathing for about a minute in a paper bag.
- In a paper bag.
- And the blood pressure comes down
because of the carbon dioxide
displacing inflammatory lactic acid.
- Dr. Ray Peat is with us.
We have lots of questions already for you,
so we're gonna dig right in so we don't get behind here.
And this is a great place to start
because I was gonna kind of ask you this anyway,
so we'll use Mark's email, Dr. Peat, to get into this.
Dr. Peat, I'm beginning to believe
that this whole China virus idea is not true.
Now we are hearing more and more talk
about mandatory vaccines and more lockdowns.
He has two questions.
What do you think, after all this time,
this COVID virus is about, if you would?
And secondly, God forbid, if it would come to it,
mandatory vaccines,
could we take anything to limit the damage?
So that's a good place to start.
I mean, we've been looking at this, Dr. Peat, for what?
Gosh, close to a year, well, nine months or so.
And I'm sure you've done plenty of your own research
and your knowledge about viruses,
the germ theory or not, exosomes.
What is your take on what we are experiencing, your opinion?
- In the fall and winter of 2019,
the Chinese identified the coronavirus
that was associated with pneumonia.
But very quickly, they found that there were five variations
of that virus, indicating that it had been around
and mutating for a while.
And then once they had the PCR test to identify it,
people around the world started checking storage samples
and a batch of sewage, I think it was in Portugal,
from January of 2019,
about a year before the Chinese virus,
the coronavirus was identified
in Portuguese sewage a year earlier.
So it definitely didn't just originate
by the time it got to China.
There were already at least five varieties.
And that rate of mutation indicates that by now,
almost a year later, we would expect to have
about 25 variants of the virus.
- 25?
- And that's the reason, after about 70 years of trying,
I guess 80 years of trying to make a vaccine
against the common cold, they found it was impossible
because the coronavirus mutates so fast.
So the reason we don't have vaccines for common cold
would suggest that there'll never be a vaccine
that is actually effective for the coronavirus.
But if you look at what happened with the polio vaccine,
the polio was identified as certain kinds of paralysis.
And so every time, for 50 years,
there was accumulating evidence that polio-like paralysis
coincided with the use of the hypodermic needle
for intramuscular injections.
And it was confirmed in animal studies
as well as continuing into Africa
that the part of the body that receives
the intramuscular vaccine is very likely to be the limb
that is paralyzed, showing that it's the intramuscular
injection causing the paralysis.
But despite that, they came out with a polio vaccine,
and suddenly the incidence of paralytic polio
dropped sharply so that the vaccine was confirmed to work.
But oddly, the incidence of other types of paralysis,
similar actual paralytic symptoms,
were given a new name, Dien-Barre and myelitis,
transverse myelitis, and several other types of paralysis
suddenly shot up right after the introduction
of the polio vaccine.
So by changing the definition,
you can make a vaccine seem to work very efficiently.
And in the case of COVID,
since when the great peak of COVID incidence and mortality
appeared in the second week of April of this year,
the incidence of influenza fell off a cliff,
very strongly indicated that what they had called influenza,
suddenly the definition changed,
ending the influenza epidemic
and creating this huge peak in COVID.
So we can expect once the vaccine comes into use,
there'll be an instruction,
instead of saying that a cough and a fever of 100 degrees
are the symptoms that will have you written down
as a COVID patient,
they'll simply change the,
return to a rational way of diagnosing COVID,
make it a little more restrictive,
and suddenly the COVID cases will disappear.
- Oh, because they'll change the definition
of what a COVID case is,
and then they'll say the vaccine worked.
- Right.
- But in your opinion, with all your research,
and you're over 80 years old now,
you can't really create a vaccine for a virus.
They've never been able to do it, correct?
- For a very stable kind of virus like smallpox.
- Possibly.
- Yeah, it works pretty well for smallpox,
so they could eliminate the disease
by surrounding the areas where it was outbreaking
and vaccinate people in the circle.
And that is simply not in their plans.
If the vaccines worked,
they could circle an outbreak and quarantine the sick people
and their immediate contacts
and eliminate the virus quickly if the vaccine worked.
- So some viruses don't mutate like the corona,
like the smallpox,
and that's why it's possible to actually
literally isolate the smallpox and electron microscope,
and you can actually see it and then thus create a vaccine,
which is the theory behind vaccines?
- Yeah, the smallpox virus is a DNA virus.
- A DNA.
- The corona virus is an RNA,
and they're extremely unstable.
- RNA viruses are unstable.
So these coronaviruses,
are they always running around and mutating in the world?
Just always, and people experience colds and flus from them?
- Yeah.
And if a very sick, old person catches a cold,
it's not uncommon for just a common cold
to kill someone who is older.
- Sure, right.
- Hard to imagine.
- So then am I hearing you saying that this thing
that went on was no more different
than any other RNA virus that runs around?
- Yeah, I and a few other people started looking
at the actual numbers,
back in February and March of this year.
And we couldn't see that anything at all was happening.
- Right.
- It's only a few people early who were saying that,
but by now, looking back at the actual figures,
more and more people are recognizing
that nothing is changing.
People are recognizing that nothing happened.
There was no pandemic.
- No pandemic.
So now, as you know, and our audience knows,
more, especially near you in the state of Washington,
they're having all these cases, right?
Which are just positive tests, which we'll get to,
and they're actually canceling Thanksgiving
up in Washington, you can't do it.
And maybe Christmas, and Dr. Fauci's talking about,
I saw a video from a CNN clip, you know, CNN,
and he's saying, "Well, we're probably not gonna be able
to get back to normal till maybe the third quarter in 2021."
So it looks like the forces, Dr. Peat, behind this,
wanna really run this baby for a long time,
I guess, geopolitically, politically, financially,
that we won't get into.
But if they're basing the cases on a PCR test,
somebody sent me a thing, Dr. Peat,
that says, "Kerry Mullins invented the PCR test
that's being used, and he said his PCR test
was not made to detect any type of infectious disease."
Is that true?
- And he said that he designed it to be used
for a maximum number of cycles.
- Cycles, yes.
- 34 cycles, I think he said.
- Yes.
- And he said, "Beyond that, it becomes meaningless,
because it produces more and more random results."
But Fauci ordered them to run 40 cycles.
You're much more likely to have a false positive
when you run it beyond its designed capacity.
- Yes, let's talk about that.
We actually have a video that we played,
and we could play it again.
I don't know if it's necessary.
In July, Dr. Fauci's saying,
"Anything above a 30 to 35 cycles,"
and he said, "I like 30."
Anything, you're just getting dead nucleotides.
- Right.
- So what is a dead nucleotide?
So tell folks what a cycle is.
They're spinning the blood after they spinning
the thing they get from your nose,
they spin it so many times?
- Yeah, the virus itself is enclosed
in a bunch of proteins like any of our exosomes.
But the unique RNA that can be identified
is enclosed in that protein circle, sphere.
And if your immune system has started tearing apart
that virus, the virus no longer is infective,
so you can call it dead.
And so you just have scraps of material.
But all the PCR needs is to have a scrap of RNA,
and that will identify the virus,
even though you might have 100 scraps
for every active virus.
- And we've read that most places are spinning
between 40 to 45 around the country.
Do you think that's accurate?
- I think that's true, but it's a certain way
to create false positives.
- Of course.
- For your cases that don't exist.
- So these cases, if you're spinning at 40,
as Fauci said himself, above 30 is dead nucleotides.
They don't necessarily mean that somebody has
a live, active, virulent, potentially deadly virus, right?
- They just don't, do they?
- Yeah, almost all of the viruses that come into existence
just end up as random dust fragments.
And one of 100 different molecules
can be identified as viral RNA,
but it has no infective power at all.
- So what do you say when these viruses come into existence?
Do they just kind of erupt as living organisms?
Are they living, are they alive?
- No, they are structurally and functionally
very similar to our own exosomes.
- Exosomes, right.
- Our cells, under stress, emit particles
that are intended to communicate between tissues.
For example, if you have lung inflammation,
exosomes will be put into the bloodstream
and go to the bone marrow,
and the bone marrow will recognize a problem in lung cells
and make repair cells.
But the virus is similar to the virus
similar to the RNA or DNA fragments
that are turned into exosomes.
And so once it gets caught into a cell,
the cell can multiply it in proportion
to the stress it's experiencing.
So a healthy cell can receive a virus,
and it's not making exosomes,
so it probably won't make virus particles either.
But once it gets into this stressed cell
producing exosome-like particles,
the virus can get spewed out into the bloodstream
and lungs as a potentially infective virus.
- So when you say stress could be anything
from fear, worry, chemical, any kind of thing,
really bad food.
- Malnutrition.
- Malnutrition, whatever.
And the body would create these exosomes
to communicate with parts of the body to help it to heal?
- Yeah, to restore balance
in the different parts of the body.
- Right, and these exosomes look exactly like a coronavirus.
Is that correct?
I've seen pictures.
- Yeah, under an electron microscope,
it's essentially impossible to tell the difference.
- Possible.
So there are many people that are arguing,
not many, but a handful,
that this whole thing is just about exosomes
and there's not any really coronavirus out there there.
But you're not one of those.
You still believe that there's still, you tell me.
- Yeah, we've had colds forever.
And this is just another variation
of that family of viruses.
- When you say we've had colds forever,
is the body just going through some kind of healing detox
when we experience a cold,
or do we catch it from out there?
- In all of the studies over the last 70 or 80 years,
they have found that it's extremely hard
to deliberately pass a cold.
You have to--
- It's impossible almost, isn't it?
- Almost, yeah.
You have to get a person to lie down
with their head slightly lower
and then take the mucus from the nose of someone
who is extremely infected
and drip it right into their nose.
And then some of those people
will come down with the virus.
But just sitting around all day, for example,
in a small room with some infected people
and others not infected,
there's almost no chance of it actually passing
by casual contact, such as playing cards.
They have put a dye in the nose of one person playing cards
and after playing cards for a while,
the dye from one person's nose
is going to end up on everyone's hands and face.
So even though there is contact and spreading of material,
it just happens that it's very seldom
that that kind of contact is going to spread a cold.
- Or a flu.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Similar.
- So if a person is already starting to get sick,
then they're the ones who will find a virus
and incubate it and come down with something.
- So in general, these colds and flus
are not really being,
we're not being assaulted from something
other than ourselves, generally.
- Yeah, you have to be somewhat sick and stressed
before you come down with any of these
potentially infective things.
- Do we change exosomes with one another?
- Yeah, since the 1940s,
there's been a lot of investigation of that subject
and finding that it goes across species and families
and phyla, the most distant organism, like tree pollen.
The DNA from tree pollen can get into our bodies.
- So if you exchange an exosome with me
and you've overcome something,
would that help me to do the same thing?
Is that the idea of sharing information?
- Yeah, bacteria are known to do that.
You expose one batch of bacteria to penicillin
and those that manage to survive it
have constructed enzymes that break down penicillin.
It works on practically anything in the environment,
the surviving bacteria can pass in an exosome,
can pass this particle to not only members of their species
but even very different types of bacteria.
And it requires a conjugation in the case of bacteria
as far as is known.
They send out a little tube to the other bacteria
and pass the genes across that tube.
- So would that be similar, this could be way off track, Doc,
but the idea that even cockroaches can become immune
to a chemical very quickly and their kids,
you could spray them with the same chemical
and it doesn't hurt them.
Are they doing similar kind of thing?
- I think so.
The bacteria have been very well studied
and there is great resistance
because of the idea of genetic determinism
and genes being eternal until they're mutated,
losing function, but the idea of acquiring information,
that was called Lamarckism and was outlawed.
They fired high school and college teachers
who talked about Lamarckism starting in 1946 and seven.
They weeded it out entirely from the United States.
The idea was sustained by three or four genetics people
around the world and came back as epigenetics
and the transgenerational transmission
of acquired information and so on.
So the whole Lamarck thing was politically,
philosophically rejected, but scientifically,
the evidence has gradually forced its way back
and still professors generally get very, very,
get very angry if you try to say
that all of these new facts are confirming Lamarck.
They're saying that, no, it's something very different,
but it acts exactly the way Lamarckism predicted
that they would work out.
- And Lamarckism, the basic premise is, again, to be clear?
- Well, actually, Darwin himself asserted
that it happened, that an acquired, adaptive trait,
that's something that the organism learns to do,
to be immune to, or resist,
that can be passed on to the offspring.
Darwin proposed that there were gemmules created
by every cell containing, describing its abilities,
and that these gemmules formed during the life
of an individual, traveled through the bloodstream
to the gonads and entered the germ cells,
passing on acquired information.
That was Darwin himself refining Lamarck's general idea
but with neo-Darwinism, Darwin himself was censored,
and genes became unchangeable things.
For example, a very stupid series of experiments in Germany,
the cutting off, I think it was 1,200 mouse tails,
and then showing that no mice were born
with amputated tails.
- Oh, so that's how they were gonna disprove this idea.
- Yeah, it had nothing to do with what either Darwin
or Lamarck had proposed, just an insane experiment,
but people were still citing that in university
when I was there, a really deep-ended sort of logic.
- So it's similar in a way to, I think,
what has been termed, Dr. Ray Peat,
as Sins of the Fathers, where we also pass on
a lot of fragments of things like leprosy and herpes
and God knows what, right, syphilis.
We've done quite a few shows on root canals
and they've had peer-reviewed studies with my dentist
who's done a peer-reviewed studies,
and they'll find all these different crazy bacterial things
in the root canals that are infected,
like leprosy, as I said, and syphilis and herpes,
and these things are just, they must just be running around
in all of our bodies at some, are fragments,
or what are they?
- Oh, they do circulate harmlessly.
- Harmlessly.
- If you're in good health.
- But they're in there.
- Sometimes, not always.
- Not always, huh.
And we might pass these along to baby?
- Sometimes, yeah, if the general health is very bad,
the emphasis tended to be on denying
that anything was inheritable
or acquired from the environment,
and so it all had to be genetic.
So all of the effects of malnutrition, poverty,
all of these effects were blamed on bad genes.
For example, until just 20 or 30 years ago,
the dogma medically was that eclampsia,
seizures during pregnancy, retention during pregnancy,
premature birth of damaged babies and so on,
all this was absolutely genetic,
that the baby had bad genes
that were causing the eclampsia in the mother.
So the doctor had no responsibility
to cure their bad inheritance,
and they were denying that nutrition
could have anything to do with prematurity
and pregnancy problems
because of the absolute genetic determinism.
But starting with a few doctors like Tom Brewer,
he showed that if you give women
a reasonable amount of protein,
a slightly more expensive diet,
and don't restrict their salt or anything they crave,
you absolutely prevent eclampsia
and tremendously reduce birth defects
and prematurity and so on.
- So that completely wiped out, not completely,
but it wiped out the genetic determinism idea.
- Yeah, yeah.
- What we call epigenetics now,
by we change it because of our lifestyle.
- Yeah, the genetic determinism
was used to maintain class differences
and keep people in poverty.
- So oftentimes when folks go to the doctors,
which we don't recommend, but they do,
they fill out all these forms
and you'll fill out something like,
did your mom or dad have diabetes or heart attack
or stuff like that?
Is there anything to that?
- In Israel, that was scientifically put to rest.
- Was it?
- I think because they were still believing
that diabetes was inherited,
but you had the immigrants from Europe into Israel
brought the European diabetes incidence with them,
but the North African Jews who came into the country
had zero diabetes when they came to Israel.
And their children, starting to eat the European diet,
developed a European rate of diabetes,
showing that it was absolutely environmental,
zero determination by genes.
- So that could be why if one puts too much stock in these,
what do they call them, like 23andMe and these things,
that could lead you down black holes
that you don't need to go?
- Yeah, genes and viruses both have been used
for the last 120 years as an excuse
for why you can't make someone well.
The doctor says, oh, it's a virus.
We don't have an antibiotic to cure viruses,
or it's a gene, it's hopeless.
But instead of giving them a good diet,
vitamin supplements, or whatever it takes.
- Dr. Ray Peat, stay right there, sir.
We got a little late start,
so we'd like to keep you a little bit longer if we can,
if you're okay with it.
I have lots of emails.
We're gonna do whatever we can
to get to as many as we can.
And so stay right there.
Patrick Timpone, oneradionetwork.com.
This is very interesting technology.
See what you think.
Previously with Dr. Mark Serkis, he offered this.
- The audience should know,
both of us are into hydrogen,
and specifically hydrogen inhalation.
Both are into the same machine.
This guy, George, at Aquacure,
made it in New York and Canada.
So three months ago, a study that was published
in Dove Press, brain metastasis completely disappear
in non-small cell lung cancer
using hydrogen gas inhalation.
- We're not saying that breathing hydrogen
and drinking hydrogen water will cure your cancer.
Not at all.
We're just reporting on a study.
But just imagine what breathing hydrogen
is doing for my body and can be doing for yours,
bringing things back into balance.
The Aquacure Hydrogen Browns Gas Machine.
We think the best on the market.
Use promo code OneRadio.
A one-year, no questions asked,
money-back guarantee, lifetime warranty.
The Aquacure Hydrogen Browns Gas Machine.
Promo code OneRadio.
10% discount on oneradionetwork.com.
Yeah, it's a really excellent technology.
You can drink the water as we do,
or breathe the gas, the Browns gas.
And you can go to molecularhydrogeninstitute.com
and see just hundreds and hundreds of peer-reviewed studies.
So there's something going on with this.
Again, we're not making any kind of claims about it at all.
But if it is the antioxidant that many, many studies
have proven it to be, there's just no telling
what your body would be able to do
once you get happy with it and working with it.
Use promo code OneRadio on oneradionetwork.com.
Previously with chemist, biologist, and nutritionist
George Altgeldt, we asked him this.
And so what do you think about Dr. Seneff's contention
that as these glyphosates are in the soil,
they bust the sulfur cycle,
and that's really detrimental to the body?
- It's extremely detrimental.
Sulfur is such an important detoxifying agent
for the entire body and especially for the liver.
Gotta have trace minerals so that the liver
can build these compounds that are essential
for getting itself cleaned.
And that lady who was talking about sulfur,
man, play that ad every chance you get
because our foods are so deficient in sulfur.
And it is a big deal for the liver to have enough sulfur
to make all those compounds that it uses to detoxify itself.
Not just sulfur, they're all important,
but sulfur is the one that we're so deficient in,
and we need sulfur.
- Thanks, George.
I had some this morning.
You might wanna give it a try.
You can click an order right on the front page
of oneradionetwork.com, three locations,
three prices, delivered.
And if you'd like more than four pounds for a discount,
email me, Patrick, at oneradionetwork.com.
- Oh, that's me.
We are gonna do,
well, I'll tell you later.
We mentioned Stephanie Seneff.
She has been looking at this potential vaccine
that's gonna be coming out.
And there's some pretty, very, very interesting,
curious things that could be in this baby.
And so stay tuned for that.
Sign up to our YouTube channel, subscribe,
click the bell just to the right,
and then you'll be notified every time we do a stream
like this with Dr. Peat and other people on YouTube.
So you just wanna stay in touch,
and we'll keep you as well-informed
and entertained as we can.
If I don't lose my voice.
(upbeat music)
- We are listener supported, One Radio Network.
- We're talking with Dr. Ray Peat.
He is here on the third Monday of the month,
and his website is rayPeat.com.
RayPeat.com.
You can do Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com.
And I think that comes out every couple of months.
Well, Dara even, well, we better get to the emails
'cause I could just talk to you all day long,
and that's not fair.
We have so many emails here.
Here's one for you, Dr. Peat.
I thought I heard Dr. Peat once say
that he maybe would order, say, an empanada
if he went out to a Mexican restaurant.
I thought empanadas were made with wheat flour,
and wondered if Dr. Peat might occasionally think it's okay
to eat foods made with wheat flour from Cynthia.
- No, no, I don't.
About 50 years ago,
the industry started pushing wheat
on the Mexican population,
and they started introducing it into tortillas,
wheat tortillas, a horrible thing.
The unleavened wheat especially is toxic,
worse than even the well-leavened bread.
If it has been processed by a sourdough method,
that breaks down many of the toxins.
But a wheat empanada or a wheat tortilla
is just a horrible thing.
- Just not a good thing.
You've talked about the nixtamalization of the corn,
and you can get that now and make your tortillas and that.
Do you think that corn is a relatively nutritious enough food
to even go through that effort
to get a good nixtamalization corn?
I mean, is it worth it?
- Well, the plain corn,
as was eaten throughout the southern United States,
it has a toxic excess of leucine,
and it contains no niacin to speak of.
And nixtamalizing it reduces the toxic amount of leucine
and tremendously increases the amount of niacin.
And it adds a lot of calcium.
So that in a kilogram of tortillas,
you've got an amount of calcium
that is almost like a quart of milk.
- Wow.
So it doesn't matter what kind of corn.
Well, of course, we'd want it to be organic if possible,
but the nixtamalization really ramps up
the nutritional profile of it.
Good, cool.
Dr. Peat, this is Eve, and she's in Stockholm, Sweden.
Hi, Eve.
Wants to know, could you ask Dr. Peat
how menopausal women can get rid of endometrial polyps?
- The ideal way would be to have a menstruation,
but the anti-estrogen of tamoxifen.
- Tamoxifen, yes.
- It has enough estrogenic effects
that it tremendously increases
the risk of endometrial polyps.
And I think the restoration of a physiological cycle,
even if it doesn't succeed in menstruation,
but if you correct your thyroid, vitamin D,
calcium intake, that's going to shift the balance
favorably away from estrogen.
And it's the unopposed estrogen that leads to the polyps.
- Okay, all right, back to that again.
Excellent.
Do you think that the vitamin D blood tests
are accurate at all to go by
if you're getting enough sun or vitamin D?
- Yeah, they're pretty good.
A few years ago, one of the companies
was doing horribly inaccurate tests,
but when they were exposed, they improved their methods.
And so I think now the average hospital
at a moderate price should be 30 to $50 per test.
- Is there a number on the D that you'd like to see
or research shows that is adequate?
- Yeah, 50 nanograms.
- How many?
- Five, five, five, zero.
- Oh, 50 nanograms.
- Per milliliter.
- Which is the number they normally show, right?
That's the number they're showing, nanograms per milliliter.
- Oh, lots of people.
The worse their symptoms are,
the farther they are below 30.
- Is there a difference between getting it internally
or out in the sun?
- Yeah, quite a bit of difference.
The ultraviolet light does age your skin
so you don't want to get sunburned.
But once your vitamin D level is up as a result of sunshine,
then you're getting many other internal benefits
from the bright sunlight.
- Good stuff, yeah.
- Because the other wavelengths, especially red light,
neutralize and detoxify the aging effects
of the ultraviolet.
So you get side effects other than the vitamin D
if you get sunlight.
- On these red lights, there's all different kinds.
You can get various wavelength of a red light,
600, 700, 800, or just the chicken lamps from Home Depot.
In general, our bodies like this red light?
- Yeah, the chicken lamps are very good
because they have the usable, more or less full spectrum,
white-looking light and provide heat, red light,
and the cheery brightness itself is very important.
- Here is John wants to know,
does Dr. Peat, his opinion on inversion therapy,
is it safe and effective?
- Inversion?
- Inversion, yeah, I guess flipping over on your head.
- Oh, that.
No, I don't think it's especially beneficial.
- You don't think it's beneficial?
Okay, here is from Kirby.
What is the best carbohydrate to protein ratio?
- It depends on your age, largely.
The older you are, the more you have to be careful
about excess protein.
High protein diet can seriously suppress
your thyroid function.
And the average normal protein is high in methionine
and cysteine, and too much of those greatly accelerate
the aging process.
So after the age of 40, you have to carefully watch
the balance between the amount of protein in your diet
and the nutrients, calcium, vitamin D,
and your thyroid function.
The carbohydrate can have a very reviving
therapeutic effect.
Currently I'm hearing reports from several people
who just by introducing fruit juice
or even Mexican Coca-Cola, suddenly they have recovered
from various things, depression, migraines,
all signs of slowing inhibited metabolism.
- Sugar.
- Sugar, yeah.
- Good old sugar.
Yeah, you can actually, I think you can actually
still get Mexican Coca-Cola.
I think there's a place in Dripping Springs
and you can actually get it where it has sugar
rather than high fructose corn syrup in it.
- Yeah, it's becoming so popular that supermarkets--
- They're figuring it out, right?
- Are selling it out quickly.
And so they're going, I think it might convince
the US Coca-Cola company to return to producing
some proper Coke.
- Yeah, but I can't imagine, I guess what the price
would be to change on your cost analysis
by changing from high fructose corn syrup to sugar.
That should be over billions of bottles,
probably be a big expense for the Coca-Cola company
to do it, I don't know.
- But if they see sales shifting to expensive imported Coke,
they could do it more economically
than having to import the stuff.
- Here's an email, you've talked about orange juice before,
but what about other fruits, writes an emailer,
like apples and peaches and berries and melons?
- If they're well ripened, they can be extremely valuable.
But currently, what you find in supermarkets,
most of them are poorly ripened.
- Yeah, George wants to know, do you think there are
some rices that are more appropriate,
better than other rices?
There's so many varieties of rices, my goodness.
- I think white rice is the best because the germ
and the bran age and oxidize and get rancid.
The Chinese learned that white rice doesn't go bad
in storage, doesn't get rancid.
- Is that right?
Well, so that would be like a jasmine
or just a basmati white rice, something like that?
- Yeah, any white rice means it's been polished
and had the bran removed.
- Sophie wants to know, Dr. Peat, does sprouting beans
and grains make them safe to eat or just less evil?
Okay, are they good for us or are they just less evil?
- It at least doubles the usable protein.
So if you're eating beans for protein,
cooked sprouts are going to give you a more survivable
amount of protein where the bean, as usually cooked,
is a very, very poor source of protein
with more toxin value.
But the problem with sprouts is they have to be well cooked.
You don't want raw sprouts in your salad
because generally sprouts can release
a lot of anti-thyroid material.
- Ah, so as long as you cook them, you're pretty good.
You're okay.
Interesting.
Another David, would a silica-based clay
like Rossol, R-H-A-S-S-O-U-L, be okay to use topically?
- Topically, yeah.
- Do you ever use these clays internally or recommend them?
- Oh, never.
- Never?
- Because stomach acid will dissolve some heavy metals
that they all contain.
- The stomach acid that we have will dissolve
the heavy metals which is in the clays.
- Yeah, the aluminum itself is released
into solution when it hits the strong stomach acid.
But they often have other heavy metals besides the aluminum.
- I see.
Raymond, oh, just like you, Raymond wants to know
my sister is getting chemo for lung cancer.
Is there anything that I could recommend her
to lessen the nausea?
She's not able to eat much and feels pretty badly
with the chemo.
- The standard thing for the nausea
is an antiserotonin drug.
I think cyproheptadine is the most pleasant way
to take antiserotonin drugs
because it comes with antihistamine effects.
And those, both antiserotonin and antihistamines
are also anti-cancer agents.
And there have been studies using cyproheptadine
against various cancers showing positive effects.
So I think aspirin and cyproheptadine
are generally protective against the toxic effects
of chemotherapy.
- So the cyproheptadine lowers serotonin
and lowers histamine, also has anti-cancerous effects
and helps the nausea?
- All of those, yeah.
- All of those, wow.
- Histamine and serotonin both are powerful things
released by cancer and stimulating cancer growth.
- I see.
And the aspirin, you're just talking,
taking some aspirin every day and that's safe.
It'll be safe for somebody with that.
- Yeah, it has a very broad spectrum of anti-cancer effects.
- And the nausea, where's the nausea coming from?
The stomach, the body just doesn't like these harsh drugs
and it's just trying hard to have a hard time
dealing with it?
- Yeah, any kind of injury to the digestive system
causes it to produce lots of serotonin
and the serotonin causes the sense of nausea
among other things.
And so blocking the serotonin will relieve the nausea.
- I see.
Okay.
Dr. Peat, what exactly is bad about eccentric exercise?
ECC, ENTRIC, eccentric?
- It involves extending the muscle
against the attempt to contract
and the effect is to cause microscopic tears.
Your muscle is trying to go one way
and the force of gravity is forcing it to go to lengthen
when it's trying to shorten.
So it tears some of the molecules apart
and that interferes with energy production
by the mitochondria.
So every time you get a sore muscle from running downhill,
you've done some damage to your muscle mitochondria.
- Interesting.
- Doing only concentric activity.
Old people have been tested
with doing daily concentric contraction
against some resistance
and then their mitochondria were sampled
and they had restored effectively younger mitochondria
that were able to produce energy.
- Okay, so tell folks the difference now.
So if we have a barbell, say 20 pounds,
and we pull it up, what is that?
- That's concentric.
- And if you let it down carefully, that's eccentric.
- And the best is?
- Concentric.
- So the good thing is to lift the barbell
then let it fall to the floor.
- Maybe that's why you see some of these weightlifters
do that.
I wonder if they know about that.
- Oh sure, I think so.
- So that's interesting.
So if you can do the eccentric
and then somehow release the pressure, that's the best.
- Yeah.
- That's cool.
That's very cool.
Dr. Peat, you've talked about darkness being a stressor.
So should we sleep with some kind of light on?
- I've tried it and it tends to be very irritating.
I never succeeded in doing it for very long.
But if you have a red light apparatus
and put it on some part of your body
where it doesn't bother your eyes,
that can have a restorative effect
reducing through your bloodstream,
reducing inflammation throughout your body.
- I was talking with a fellow
who's really into red light stuff, Doc,
and he suggested in the neighborhood of 600 to 700
or something of these wavelengths of red light,
even on your testicles, would increase testosterone levels.
Do you think that's possible?
- Oh yeah, definitely possible.
But I would just want to be cautious
because there hasn't been research showing the safety.
There's a possibility that it could stimulate cancer growth
as well as production of hormones.
- Oh, that wouldn't be good.
So we just don't know with these kind of ideas
what they could be doing.
- Yeah, I wouldn't feel secure until I had seen--
- Seen something.
- Good research on it.
- To all the guys that are saying
they like to get these T levels up,
do you have some favorite things you can offer them
on this November 16 day of increasing testosterone levels,
the good stuff, the stuff that we need
to get up and go and lift and work?
- All of the good anti-inflammatory nutrition
principles are going to increase your protective androgens
from DHEA to testosterone and dihydrotestosterone.
All of those tend to rise when you do
an anti-inflammatory anti-estrogen program.
- And folks can Google that and look at that.
I mean, you're talking anti-inflammatories like
T-Rex and things like that?
Different--
- Oh, aspirin, for example.
- Aspirin.
- The right amount of progesterone and pregnenolone,
even though large amounts of progesterone
antagonize testosterone, by inhibiting estrogen,
the right amount of progesterone
can actually increase your testosterone.
I've seen it happen in middle-aged men.
- And what do they do?
- Take like five or 10 milligrams of progesterone
and that lowers the aromatase activity,
stops the conversion of testosterone to estrogen,
and so it leaves the testosterone that you produce
leaves it effective.
- Oh, that's why you helped develop
with the Progest-E product years ago?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, uh-huh, and that's what that does, huh?
- Mm-hmm.
- Dr. Peat, thank you for continuing to come on Patrick's show.
I really enjoy it.
Could you ask Dr. Peat why he likes
Morton's canning and pickling salt
as it reads sodium chloride on the ingredients?
I'm simply curious.
- Because it doesn't have the toxic additives
that regular salt usually has.
- About all these different sea salts and things like that.
- Yeah, if you look at the ingredients carefully,
there are several brands of sea salt that are just as pure,
but they're usually three or four times as expensive
as the canning salt.
- Yeah, you probably know Dr. Hal Huggins, right?
The Mercury Fellow?
- Mm-hmm.
- We used to have him on quite a bit years ago,
a wonderful guy, and he would take
all these different blood tests from people,
and he was a real magician at it,
and he would, thousands of 'em,
and he claimed that people that did
the pickling and canning sea salt had better,
he called 'em blood chemistries,
had better blood chemistries than people on sea salt.
- That's the effect of the sodium chloride itself.
Tom Brewer cited some studies,
a book by Shanklin and Hoden
gave a lot of the details in which,
without changing anything else in the diet,
they gave women with serious eclampsia
or pre-eclampsia symptoms, gave 'em, in one case,
six grams extra sodium chloride per day,
and in the other, I think it was 20 grams extra per day,
and in both cases, that salt alone
cured their pregnancy problems.
It has wide, very general effects
to avoid a sodium chloride deficiency.
You're activating the protective oxidative metabolism,
suppressing aldosterone, and aldosterone rises
in proportion to the lack of sodium chloride,
and aldosterone produces inflammation,
heart disease, calcification, fibrosis.
Everything bad produced by aldosterone
is suppressed when you get enough sodium chloride.
- Interesting, but do not these different fancier ones,
you know, the Himalayan, and what's the other one
from over there in Europe, Celtic sea salt,
don't they have enough sodium chloride to be okay?
- Very good, except they contain heavy metals.
- Heavy metals, they all do.
- The discoloration is usually largely from heavy metals.
- Oh, so the more white ones, maybe they would be better?
- Yeah, the pure white.
- Pure white.
- That's the thing about pure sea salt
and Morton tanning salt.
- Interesting, Dr. Peat Wayne says,
"Dr. Warburg stated low oxygen in the cells
"will result in cancer.
"What nutrients can I consume to increase the oxygen
"in my cells as a prevention of cancer?"
- Warburg's enzyme used vitamin B2 as its cofactor,
and he advocated the great importance
of getting enough vitamin B2 in your diet.
That can momentarily correct the cancer metabolism
of overproducing lactic acid.
Many other things are needed to change
the whole physiology, but vitamin B2 can,
when you're overproducing lactate,
the B2 can turn it off in a matter of hours,
so that people with redness of the eyes,
redness of the nose and cheeks, nosebleeds,
memory problems, nightmares,
lots of symptoms of a B2 deficiency
and lactic acid excess, vasodilation
and weakening of capillaries, that can be corrected.
And according to Warburg, that will be a drastic protection
against developing cancer.
- Fascinating.
Robert is in Australia.
He's got two questions.
One, he's been, at your suggestions,
trying some freshly squeezed orange juice and milk,
and he gets some headaches, strange noise in his head,
and it also happens when he's eating bone broth,
so he's been doing some research
and thinking that it's probably related
to histamine intolerance.
Can you please ask Dr. Peat
what he can do to overcome this problem?
- Keeping enough fiber in the diet is one thing.
- Fiber.
- Yeah, when you shift to those liquid foods,
you're likely not having the same amount of bulk
in your diet, and a change in your intestine
will invariably increase your serotonin and histamine.
- Ah, okay.
Can you use these?
They got some pretty good, I think, organic,
even psyllium husk, is that okay?
- Yep. - Okay.
- Any kind of fiber that doesn't irritate your intestine.
I've seen a couple people who got constipated
from psyllium fiber, but usually it works.
- It works okay.
- And oatmeal, oat bran, it usually is sold
with quite a bit of starch attached to it,
but the oat bran is a very effective bulk,
except in the long run, it can increase your estrogen.
- Oh, right, yeah.
- Bamboo shoots, in excess, they have a slight
anti-thyroid effect, but in moderation,
they're a very safe fiber.
Raw carrots are one of the safest fibers,
and well-cooked mushrooms are another
cancer-preventive fiber.
- And fiber, yeah, you're a big mushroom fan.
And of course, you talk about the raw carrot salad.
That's what it's doing, too, is the fiber,
especially if you're gonna do more bone broths
and milk and orange juice, you need that
to move stuff through, huh?
- Yeah, it will, over a period of several days,
establish a new rhythm in the intestine,
and that reduces estrogen, endotoxin,
serotonin, and histamine.
- Excellent.
Robert in Australia is also taking three grains
of thyroid, and my temperature has not risen
to optimum levels, however, at the same time,
my resting heart rate is about 90 to 100 per minute.
What could be going on?
- That can happen with a selenium deficiency
or a calcium deficiency or vitamin D deficiency
or some other imbalance of nutrients.
So it's good to check what your ratio of calcium
to phosphate in the diet is.
Too much meat, for example, will interfere
with proper thyroid function.
- Too much meat.
So that's what you had mentioned last time you were on
about even the animals getting lipomas from too much,
what's the main ingredient in the meat?
Phosphorus.
- Yeah, phosphorus turns out to be a pretty important toxin,
not only in liver or kidney failure,
but it generally is a promoter of cancer
and degenerative diseases.
- So I guess on the animals, the calcium would be bones,
why the people recommend giving bones to dogs, huh?
I guess you'd get calcium there.
- Yeah, the carnivores usually eat the smaller,
tender bones along with the meat,
so they're getting a balance more like milk and cheese.
- Rhonda's listening, she says, "Dr. Peat, thank you
"for being on the show with Patrick.
"Many years ago, Lita Lee,"
oh yeah, I remember her, she used to talk
about your work a lot, I guess she still does.
"She quoted you as saying, 'A man blew in the face
"'from lack of oxygen, COPD, and able to walk
"'was instructed by you to take a pinch
"'of pregnenolone every day, and a couple weeks later,
"the man was up walking around.'"
Is this an accurate story?
- Exactly, it was in Toluca, which is very high altitude,
and I had known him for 40 years or so,
and he didn't recognize me when I came in the room.
His attention was affected along with his breathing problem
and purple face, but I gave his daughter
a batch of pregnenolone and a thyroid powder
to add to his food every day, and I went somewhere
for two weeks and came back later,
and he was his normal self.
He had his office on an upper floor downtown Toluca,
and there were only ramps, and so he took me
up to his office.
I got winded at the high altitude going up
to the third floor, and he was doing fine.
He took me all around Toluca visiting
various acquaintances and so on,
and I was really short of oxygen,
but he was absolutely breathing perfectly
from official advanced emphysema
to perfect lung function in two weeks.
- And what do you think happened here?
What went on?
- That caused me to look up the old literature,
and it happened that right about that time
I saw a woman, 35 years old,
who for 15 years had had a terrible oxygenation problem.
It started when her father was giving her
estrogen injections.
He was a doctor, and thought women needed estrogen,
but her lung oxygenation dropped to about 5% of normal,
and stayed that way until she, 20 years later,
took adequate thyroid.
Looking at the animal research,
I saw that they had created emphysema in various species
just with estrogen.
A shot of estrogen could decrease oxygenation
of the lung by 95% in about an hour after the shot.
- Wow.
- Same thing that had happened to this woman.
And with age, both men and women
accumulate more and more estrogen,
unopposed by progesterone and androgens.
And there had also been studies of using progesterone
in emphysema, curing emphysema
just with a few doses of progesterone.
- Fascinating, wow, amazing.
- But those individual studies just didn't catch on
and get spread through the culture.
- Dr. Ray Peat is November 16, 2020.
He's here on the third Monday of the month.
We'll talk about the Constitution tomorrow,
how it could be affected with the FDA,
any kind of vaxes or masking or social distancing,
and also some of the election stuff.
So it'll be a fun show with Richard Proctor
of the Constitutional Party.
Ellie wants to know, Dr. Peat,
is sesame oil okay to be used on the body?
It's recommended for vatas in ayurvedic medicine.
- Internally, it has too much polyunsaturated fat
for regular use.
And with covering a lot of your skin,
you can absorb harmful amounts of polyunsaturated fats.
But on a small area, it's harmless and probably beneficial.
- Dr. Peat, this is from Peter.
I use castor oil a few times a week
to keep everything moving down below,
if you know what I mean, we do.
Do you think there's any downsides to this?
- Since it takes itself out as it cleans your intestine,
it's very unlikely to have any systemically harmful effects.
Since it's a laxative, it just doesn't get
very much absorbed.
- Yeah, please ask Dr. Peat how he avoids scarpenia
and what foods keep testosterone levels up
after age 65 from Ben.
- Sarcopenia?
- Yeah, sarcopenia.
How he avoids sarcopenia, I guess, is the question.
And then raising T levels.
- Everything anti-inflammatory helps.
- Recently, people have been noticing
that things that lower angiotensin,
the ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers,
the blockers in particular help to restore muscle mass
in old people.
Because it's inflammation developing
with the accumulated hormonal changes of aging,
the balance shifts towards estrogen,
which activates nitric oxide
and other pro-inflammatory mediators,
causing inflammatory fibrosis
and loss of the functional muscle protein.
- Dr. Peat, this is from Angie.
I'm getting some of the Sinoplus from the Mexican pharmacy
that you're suggesting might be worthwhile.
Can you tell me how many grains are in these tablets?
How many grains?
Yeah, she wants to know how they,
I guess they compare to like nature thyroid,
which are generally 60 grains, aren't they?
Or I'm sorry, one grain or 60 milligrams?
- That's a traditional definition,
but the natural thyroids have varied greatly.
But I consider the Sinoplus to be more or less
two and a third to two and a half grains equivalent.
So I recommend starting with no more than a fourth
of a tablet for the first two or three weeks.
- Wow, so each Sinoplus is two to what?
- Two and a half grains, roughly.
- Two and a half grains,
which is, I guess, 2.5 times 60, right?
Milligrams.
- Yeah.
- Right?
- Wow, that's pretty hefty dose.
- Yeah, yeah, no one starts on that much.
Traditionally, people would be started on,
almost always on a half a grain.
- And then work your way up?
- Yeah, every two weeks,
you can add a fourth to a half grain.
And people, most people ended up needing two grains.
So that's why the Sinoplus settled in on that dose.
That's for an established corrective dose.
- About a 2.5, they do?
- Yeah, one pill a day.
It ends up, but you shouldn't get there,
try to get there the first week because it'll,
for example, your tissue doesn't retain magnesium effectively
when you're low thyroid.
And if you take a big dose of thyroid suddenly,
there's not enough magnesium for the demand.
And so it can cause vasoconstriction in your heart
and cause pains and so on.
- Yeah, so, and the metrics you're using
when you say when you have the right amount
would be the body temperature, the pulse,
and you've talked about the knee or the ankle thing
where you're hitting the Achilles tendon as well.
- Yeah, it's the relaxation rate that you look for
in that Achilles reflex test.
- Yeah, and then also the body temp and--
- And pulse rate and quality of sleep.
- Quality of sleep.
- The depth of your sleep should increase very quickly
when you correct the thyroid.
It's the same relaxation principle in your brain
as in your ankle reflex. - In your ankle.
- It should relax instantly when you're not needing it.
So when you start trying to go to sleep,
your brain should turn off as quickly as your foot relaxes.
- And if your foot doesn't relax,
then you just keep taking it until the body figures it out?
I mean, how much you need?
- Yeah, using the Quick Acting T3,
I've seen people whose foot took about two seconds
to return to the relaxed position.
- Oh, yeah, that's the product from the same place, Doc.
What's the name of that one?
- Sinomel.
- Sinomel, and that's just T3,
and you've actually seen the relaxation thing
just do quickly.
- Yeah, I think it was 10 micrograms.
I gave this person who had a very, very slow relaxation,
and an hour later when we tried it,
it was a normal, quick, floppy relaxation.
- Floppy, floppy.
- And you can get quick results
against insomnia the same way.
- Just by trying with a little T3 before bed?
- Yeah, I noticed it in myself,
and a doctor in Nevada said he hadn't been able to sleep
for three or four nights and was desperate.
And I had some Sinomel in my pocket.
I told him to take 10 micrograms
and the next day he pulled me aside
and said, "That stuff's better than morphine."
- I'll be, and how many micrograms
in one of those Sinomels?
- 25.
- Oh, so you bought a half or so, huh?
Wow, very interesting.
So if you did that, which is interesting, a great story,
is it gonna help the thyroid to be better each day
or do you have to keep doing it?
How does that work?
- I've seen just two or three people
who cured their hypothyroidism
by supplementing for just a few days.
It broke them out of a stress
that was inhibiting their thyroid.
But usually, if a person is overweight,
the thyroid will help you get rid
of the estrogen-producing fat
and polyunsaturated fats in storage.
And once you've got those eliminated,
which typically takes from two to five years,
then your thyroid can function normally with a good diet.
- Interesting, very good.
Couple more, then we'll let you go.
People on YouTube are claiming Mexican Coca-Cola
on YouTube contains high-fructose corn syrup,
just like the American Coke.
It's just Coca-Cola pandering to separate markets.
Do you think that's true?
- I heard that story from someone working
at the Pepsi-Cola company in Mexico
that they were using invert sugar,
but not the claim that they were using the corn syrup.
I hadn't heard that claim before.
- Yeah, I haven't either.
Why does Dr. Peat think that distilled water
could be cancer-causing?
I heard him say that a few times from Naomi.
- That was just a test demonstrating
that any irritation will release histamine and serotonin
and other inflammatory mediators
and will be carcinogenic.
That was involving injecting distilled water.
- Oh, I see.
Is it safe to take aspirin to help
with pain and discomfort, breastfeeding?
Oh, C-section last week.
Could there be anything to eat, drink, supplements
to help with milk production?
So, okay, C-section last week.
Safe to take some aspirin to help
with pain and discomfort and breastfeeding?
- I think it's safe if your vitamin K level is adequate.
I would start supplementing some vitamin K
and make sure your clotting system is good.
- I see.
And to increase milk production.
Have you came across things over the years that'll do that?
- Yeah, drinking orange juice and milk.
- Orange juice and milk.
- Yeah, I've seen non-producers
get their normal milk production up
if they drank a quart of orange juice for a day or two.
- Interesting.
Back in the hippie days, Dr. Peat,
we used to talk about, I don't know if it was true,
I do remember for breastfeeding moms
to increase milk production was actually a natural,
kind of a full-bodied beer.
I wonder where that came from.
Do you think there's anything to that?
- It's an old practice.
Partly the idea was that it contains estrogen.
- Could be something to.
Okay, here's a final one for you.
Every now and then I get kind of swollen feet,
not terrible, but it's some kind of edema.
What could my body be telling me to look for
to balance out?
- Could be a salt or calcium deficiency or low thyroid.
- Either one or all three.
- Or low protein.
In general, before we go on this thyroid thing,
whether you're doing SinoPlus
or experiment around with Nature Throid,
can we get to a point, do you think,
where we can just help this thyroid be okay on its own
or do we just mind taking some of the pig stuff
or whatever we're gonna take for the rest of our life?
I mean, does it matter to you?
- By the time you're 45 or 50,
there are so many accumulated problems that it's fairly--
- You know what's the difference, right?
Take a little pig thyroid.
- Yeah, it's fairly rare that a person doesn't benefit
from a little thyroid after the age of 50.
- Yeah.
I mean, there's no real downsides, is there?
- No.
- Well, my friend, thank you for being here.
So you're not into the city of Portland
where people are being silly,
so you're outside there and taking care of yourself, right?
- Yep, nothing happening here.
- Yeah.
Do you see any, I know you kind of study this stuff,
do you think that we're gonna experiencing
possible some food shortages?
Have you looked at that?
- Yeah, the World Economic Forum
is, I think, intent on disrupting the economy
at the point of creating food shortages
so that they can institute their changes.
If you Google Klaus Schwab, World Economic Forum--
- Yeah, we know him.
- Yeah, you'll find some really horrible plans
they're putting out and instituting, putting into practice.
- They're not secret about it either, are they?
It seems like they just put it out there.
- Yep, starting with the Rockefeller Foundation,
10 years ago, they've put out the scenarios
of taking over the world.
- We're hearing some pretty spooky things, excuse me,
about this potential vaccine.
Dr. Seneff has been working on it from MIT,
we're gonna have her on.
Have you heard anything or seen anything that disturbs you?
- Anything that what?
- Into this potential vaccine that's coming out.
- Oh, all--
- All of the above?
- They're proposing putting lots of horrible things in.
- Yeah.
- Tracking devices.
- I've heard that, wow, man.
So we just gotta figure out how not to take this guy, right?
Even if somebody tells us to.
- Yeah, and they're telling people to take a flu shot,
even if they can't get the corona.
But several studies show that people who took a flu shot
last season were several times more likely
to develop a coronavirus infection this season,
showing that they destroyed the immune system.
Even though they produce antibodies against influenza,
they weaken the innate immunity.
- We appear to be making some headways, though,
in the courts, and I know you've talked about this
on your website, but I know that there was a big victory
in California where a couple attorneys took Governor Newsom
to court and said he didn't have the authority
to do all this stuff he was doing, and they won.
So there's some things going on
that are positive in that regard.
- Yeah, several lawyers, people you've had on the program,
are working through the courts,
so I think there's hope that way.
- Yeah, I don't know if they really get hardcore,
Dr. Peat, with this vaccine thing.
It may be a Supreme Court one, huh?
Could be.
- Yeah, and I hope the composition of the Supreme Court
recognizes some kind of constitution.
- Constitutional.
We hope so.
I think, theoretically, there's five to four
more constitutionalists, but this Chief Justice fellow,
I don't know what he's been,
I think he needs some orange juice, Dr. Peat,
because he's ruled some pretty silly rulings,
in my opinion, in the last few months, Roberts.
- Yeah, there's a competition between authoritarianism
and constitutionalism.
- Yes.
- Oh, that's the other word, yeah, authoritarianism.
Well, Dr. Peat, you take care of yourself.
We'll see you in a month or so, I guess before Christmas.
- Okay.
- You have fun.
Thanks for everything.
We really appreciate your being here, sir.
It's an honor.
- Okay, thanks.
- Dr. Ray P, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Yeah, boy, I tell you, having some fun now, aren't we?
We are having some fun now.
Well, we're trying to stay on top of everything that we can
as best we can, and I think you're gonna hear
from a few people this week.
We only have the, not only,
but we have a constitutional fellow scheduled for tomorrow,
I think at 11 o'clock Central Time,
but it doesn't matter exactly when we put it out there live.
He'll be live.
I think his internet is solid.
Just tune into our website.
Please sign up for our newsletter,
and Sharon sent some cool things out a few times a week.
It'll keep you up to date with all the people
we're having on.
Don't forget our archives now.
We have an incredible suite of shows,
probably 3,000 hours of audio shows on OneRadioNetwork.
So use our search function there at the top right.
Use it if you wanna.
You'll find people going back, I don't know,
what, 12, 13, 14, 15 years.
Some really good stuff.
Most of this, if we find people with some good information,
it doesn't go out of date.
So even if the show was 10 years ago,
you're gonna be able to find some things that may help you.
So we have a nice search function.
You could put in people's names,
put in things like low thyroid, high thyroid, whatever,
and then also go on to our YouTube channel,
Patrick Timpone, and then subscribe to our channel.
Click on the bell to the right of the subscribe button,
and that'll get you subscribed up and be notified
when we put out the streams.
We have a time out on Facebook,
so I haven't been able to be there.
Won't be there for a few more days.
And we're looking at some other social media things
that are less, whatever.
I don't even wanna, I don't need any more Zuckerberg karma,
so I'm just being nice.
So keep in touch.
Let me know if I can help with anything.
My name is Patrick Timpone.
I love you all very much.
Thank you, and thanks for your ongoing support.
It's an honor to be here,
and we will see you very soon on oneradionetwork.com.
(upbeat music)
- [Announcer] We are listener supported, One Radio Network.
(static)
[BLANK_AUDIO]